memes
the mistakes when it comes to minds and
what a person is
and how they are not just a little but
very significantly even qualitatively
different to all other things in the
universe including other animals even
complex animals like dogs and great apes
are multitudinous
they begin in the epistemology in what
knowledge even is and how it can be
created and what can possibly create it
especially explanatory knowledge
if the epistemology begins in deep
misconceptions already known to be false
like
knowledge can be derived from the senses
then one is apt if talking about systems
that can learn as
systems that can derive knowledge from
sense data they gather from the
environment a system that has been
programmed with the knowledge of what a
map is and how a map is to be generated
by
shining lights and lasers which reflect
from surfaces to then be analyzed by
photo multipliers cameras and computers
converted to data then randomly moving
to another spot in a room is a useful
system for a robotic vacuum cleaner to
have but that robot is not learning to
make a map it has already been coded
with that knowledge the programmer knew
what a map was
they knew how to make the map and now
the robot is effectively a universal map
maker for two-dimensional surfaces
meeting certain strict criteria like for
example not encountering bodies of water
the robot is not learning anything it is
merely gathering data to make a specific
map sure it was not programmed with the
specific map of the room it is now in
but that is not creative work for it
all the actually creative work was done
elsewhere at another time in the mind of
the programmer how exactly maps in
general of this kind are constructed
that's the actual creative work now any
specific map to be made of any room a
floor plan in other words can be
automated the robot has no new ideas
it is a mindless machine but we people
can create new maps
many have seen the so-called mercator
projection of the map of the earth it is
the one seen most often it tries to get
the shape of the land masses right but
because the true earth is approximately
a sphere the areas of the continents are
misleading a so-called peter's
projection also attempts to project the
surface of the spherical earth onto a
flat piece of paper and get the areas
right
but this comes at the expense of the
shape of the continents which now become
more misleading
only a globe itself preserves both shape
and area
maps of all kinds are memes
ideas that persist to be passed on
that people can create new kinds of maps
sets us apart from machines we can make
memes but to make memes we first need to
have an idea not all ideas survive
many we have we almost immediately think
no bad idea that won't work and it's
forgotten some ideas we might keep to
ourselves our entire life and never pass
on to anyone else
those aren't memes either a meme needs
to cause a behavior in the person with
the idea and then
that behaviour must be observed by
someone else who then tries to
understand the meaning behind the
behaviour and emulate it
this is how memes get copied behavior
might very well be someone physically
moving like how one would teach a child
to wave at someone new or it might be
literal speech or writing something that
causes something to happen out in the
objective world beyond the mind that has
a meaning to the person who does the
talking or the writing or something else
and which others can guess the meaning
they guess the meaning and so themselves
have an idea which could be a more or
less accurate representation of the
original idea and then they engage in
behaviours which others can observe and
so it goes with the meme being
replicated
this is how memes are replicated we
cannot copy the contents of each other's
minds directly so this is yet another
difference between us and all other
systems including artificial
intelligence present ai being a regular
computer can have the ideas represented
in its code which is really an imperfect
representation of the idea of the
programmer copied directly from computer
to computer with arbitrarily high
accuracy a program in a mindless
computer can be copied but ideas and
minds are different the only known way
for us to get our idea into the mind of
another person is to for example speak
some words but those sounds we called
words must be interpreted indeed first
one must interpret their own thoughts
into language and then speak them and
those words are then interpreted by
one's interlocutor and this whole chain
of transmission is highly error-prone
how often do you think or even say each
week no that's not what i meant exactly
when trying to get a message across it
is remarkable how memes do get fatally
replicated but it is quite
understandable they also change over
time because they are imperfectly copied
and so it is with maps
memes about how to represent the world
the map is not the territory as people
say and knowledge itself is like a map a
representation of reality that can be
more or less accurate and can increase
the fidelity with which it represents
reality over time
some maps like the mercator projection
are better in some contexts like the
peter's projection than others but they
both persist good explanations are memes
but so are good jokes and good fiction
and good songs and art and more besides
memes are ideas that survive and minds
are the makers of memes